# GA-for-BMS
 Genetic Algorithm for Battery Management System
 
In this project, battery capacity of a BMS is tried to be optimized in terms of periods for off grid networks. An improved genetic algorithm is proposed to solve this problem. In the proposed genetic algorithm, the initial population is obtained randomly and using the K-Means clustering algorithm it is clustered to start with a diversified initial population. Two types of fitness functions are proposed, cost-based and distance-based for serving intensification and diversification purposes. Wheel selection rule is used for selecting parents to give higher chances to the ones that have higher fitness values. Crossover operator is applied probabilistically, and two types of crossover operator are used; 1-point, and 2-points. In mutation operator, mutation applied to an offspring, using the mutation level, mutation rate and mutation probability parameters. Mutation level is used to decide how many of the genes in the chromosome will change and the mutation rate is used to decide what percentage of the gene value will change. Elitism ratio is used for keeping good solutions for next generations. In the experiments, these parameters are analyzed and population size, crossover probability, crossover type, mutation rate are decided as important parameters. With the help of early results and factorial design experiments tuning of the algorithm is done by using different values for these important parameters. After the tuning process, optimal parameter settings are obtained. Proposed GA with optimal parameter settings is compared with the fine-tuned simulated annealing algorithm and random search algorithm. One way ANOVA analysis is performed for the comparison of three algorithms and according to the results proposed GA outperforms others.
